# Introduction

The purpose of this course is to offer confident and savvy computer users an onramp to the world of programming. Knowledge of coding is like a fire burning in your brain. The fuel - your neurons - are already there, ready to ignite. And once lit, you can blow on the fire, causing it to spread into understanding new coding concepts, capabilities and languages - some of the most brilliant developers in the world are self taught. The goal of this course is to spark that fire. 🔥

A few things before we start out. First, programming is a way to manipulate data - nothing more. It is massively helpful to have some idea of why you want to learn how to code, *what you want to be able to do*. So think about this - why do you care? Learning a tool is so much easier if you have in mind what you want to make with it. Code is used to make websites, collect and understand data, control computers or robots, create maps, make art, etc etc etc. Why do you want to learn how to code? What digital tools do you use that you're most curious about, or most excite you? When do you use computers for repetitive tasks that take up a lot of your time? (Programming is *very* good at automating repetitive tasks.)

At their heart most programming languages have the same functionality, but each has their own strengths and weaknesses, often depending on what resources and tools have been developed for the language. We will be working primarily with [Python](https://www.python.org/doc/essays/blurb/) and [JavaScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript), the two most-used languages (and great ones to learn for coders starting out), but there's no reason why you won't be able to branch out into others, depending on your needs. It really is a universe.

Second, the concepts that all programming is built on are incredibly simple - the fundamental rules of logic. We will seek to start with these simple concepts and build up, but be forewarned: it is frustrating to learn. Code is a form of language, a way to instruct what actions a computer should take. Computers are rigid machines, so the languages they speak must be rigid. Tiny, seemingly innocuous mistakes and oversights can break everything (literally - a single mistyped character can break an otherwise perfect million-line program). It takes time and experience to learn to see these errors - but you will learn. And, the computer will usually provide you information about where things went wrong. Don't get discouraged. We'll get the hang of it. And on that note, there is a truly worldwide community of people happy to help others learn and troubleshoot. There is an etiquette to this - no one wants to hear a question that someone hasn't honestly tried to answer for themselves - but if you hit a sticking point, ask for help. If you have friends who are programmers, ping them - often you'll just get a link to an article that will have your answer, but that can speed things up massively. Also, websites like [stackoverflow.com](http://stackoverflow.com) have people on 24 hours per day looking for fun questions to answer - post there.

Third - **read the code**. Every line means something and is there for a reason. There are so many ways to do just about anything; reading other peoples' code will help you learn different design patterns and improve your programming. Work through and try to figure out what you think each function will do, why it's relevant.

We will seek to show you why this can be useful from the get-go. Many coding courses never actually touch real-world applications; that is not this course. We will introduce things slowly, and try to showcase the breadth of what programming can do. So, without further ado, a very quick introduction: a python program that prints the biggest earthquake on earth in the past 24 hours. Don't worry so much about any one thing, we'll go over it all - by the end of this all of this will (should) make sense. The `#comments` will help us understand what is going on.

[https://gist.github.com/robisoniv/3c0944878a8cfc0198471e67af031440](https://gist.github.com/robisoniv/3c0944878a8cfc0198471e67af031440)

By the end of these sessions *hopefully* all of this will make sense.  Next up, get familiar with your Programming Environment.

Next, read about [operating systems](../2/).
